# Angular Training, Unit 3C

Unit 3 was about child-to-parent component communication. We
coded a pagination widget based on `<button>` elements which
sent events to the paginated table component; other
than the `@Input` and `@Output` variables, child and parent
are decoupled and make no assumptions about each other.

We'll re-iterate that approach in this unit, this time 
using an `<input>` text field to organizationLoginFilter the currently
displayed organizations, showing only those
whose _login_ field matches the text we're typing.

## A new child component

We need to define a new component type the organizationLoginFilter text. As usual, 
we'll
try to make as generic as possible, so we can re-use it if
necessary. We'll need a `<input>` element to type in, and a filterLabel to indicate
what it is about. We also want that the parent component to be contacted with
every keystroke.
```bash
ng generate component KeyByKeyTextInput
```

### HTML

The HTML definition in _key-by-key-text-input.component.html_ 
is super simple:
```angular2html
<div>
    <filterLabel>
        <span>{{ filterLabel }}</span>
        &nbsp;
        <input #textBox (keyup)="onKeyUp(textBox.value)">
    </filterLabel>
</div>
```
`filterLabel` will be an `@Input` variable. Element `<input>`
has ID _textBox_, and it will invoke the `onKeyUp()` 
controller method on every keystroke. (To be precise,
not before the key is released.)

### The controller

In the controller we add an `@Output` event emitter 
to alert our parent component
that a new string is available.

```typescript
    @Input()
    filterLabel: string;

    @Output()
    newStringEventEmitter = new EventEmitter<string>();

    constructor() {
    }

    ngOnInit(): void {
    }

    onKeyUp( newString: string ): void {
        this.newStringEventEmitter.next( newString );
    }
```

## Integrating with the parent

We add our new component to the parent, the paginated table 
(_paginated-git-hub-organizations-table.component.html_).
```angular2html
    <app-key-by-key-text-input class="line"
                               [label]="filterLabel"
                               (newStringEventEmitter)="newFilterEventHandler($event)">
    </app-key-by-key-text-input>
```
We need to wire the child component's input and output 
variables to
new fields and methods in the paginated table controller
(_paginated-git-hub-organizations-table.component.ts_).
```typescript
    filter: string;
    readonly filterLabel = 'Filter';
    
    ...

    newFilterEventHandler( newFilter: string ): void {
        this.filter = newFilter;
    }
```
Whenever new text is typed in the child component, the parent
controller's `filter` variable is updated.

## Integrating the organization's table

The value of `filter` will be needed inside the actual
organizations table, so we'll declare an `@Input`
variable there called `organizationLoginFilter` and do the wiring in 
_paginated-git-hub-organizations-table.component.html_:

```angular2html

<app-git-hub-organizations-table [organizations]="gitHubOrganizations"
                                 [organizationLoginFilter]="filter">
</app-git-hub-organizations-table>
```

**NOTE** Events generated by the input child element are passed on to the parent 
component, which in turns passes the information down to the organizations table,
another child element. Effectively, the parent acts as a message broker for 
two unrelated children.  
In Unit 4 we'll see how this can avoided by allowing direct, peer-to-peer communication.

## Filtering out table rows

What we need to do now is use that value to exclude some
rows from appearing in the organizations table 
(_git-hub-organizations-table.component.html_).

We'll make use of two Angular features, `*ngIf` to display
or hide a component based on some condition, and 
`<ng-container>` to group some elements.

```angular2html
    <tr *ngFor="let organization of organizations" >
        <ng-container *ngIf="(!organizationLoginFilter) || organization.login.includes( organizationLoginFilter )">
            <td class="id-col"> {{ organization.id }} </td>
            <td class="login-col"> {{ organization.login }} </td>
            <td class="url-col"> {{ organization.url }} </td>
            <td class="description-col"> {{ organization.description }} </td>
        </ng-container>
    </tr>
```
The `*ngIf` condition is:  
`(!organizationLoginFilter) || organization.login.includes( organizationLoginFilter )`

It evaluates to `true` (meaning, the row is displayed)
if variable `organizationLoginFilter` is null/empty, _or_ its value
is a substring of the organization's `login` field.
